# Obstacle Detector

## Abstract
In a world of developing science and technology, humans fulfill their daily needs and other small desires with our own. There are some or particularly many people who are physically challenged, feel difficult and seek other people's help to even move from one place to another. Taking care of them and thinking about all their needs here is a solution that is proposed: "Obstacle Detector". With the help of the basic function of the Ultasonic sensor of detecting objects, this process becomes a useful one for the blind people to make their movement without any barriers.  Physically challenged people account for 27.5 percent of the population. In kids under 18 years, the prevalence of disability is envisioned at 6% and for the age organization above 18 years, it's 14%. It is predicted that there are three.4 million disabled children and 10.2 million disabled adults inside the u.s.. In addition, roughly 4.6 percent of people experience disability as a result of a spinal cord injury. Many assistive technology and devices are available to assist physically challenged people.

The main Aim of this project to help the Blind people.Using this process the opposite objects,or the humans can be easily detected.Here we used only the basic process of sensors This is the simple and effective projects for the blind peoples . Now days the percentage of blindness can be increasing shortly . we make this mini process of the ultrasonic sensors . This is simple and low cost product which can be low maintenence product compared to the other products. This usage of this process can be deliverable into an complete products like Smart Glass ,and walking stick.
